6 new English from BBCLearningEnglish.com.
Hello, this is 6 minute English from BBCLearningEnglish.
I'm Neil.
And I'm Beth.
In this program, we're talking about politeness.
Britain has a reputation for being a polite place where children are told to say,
please and thank you.
But in real life, that isn't always true.
You give it up, Penn.
I'm sorry.
That was a bit rude.
Well, what should I have said?
How about Neil, please, could you pass me the pen?
Fine.
Neil, could you please pass me the pen?
There you go.
That's much better.
Now, listen as BBC Radio 4 presenter, Michael Rosen,
who is a well-known poet and children's author in Britain,
describes what happened to him one day.
Recently, this is how it went into boys walking past me in the street,
stopped and said,
hey, you're finging in.
Now, that one seems to break all the rules.
And because he broke the rules, it gave me a problem.
How do I answer it?
A boy saw Michael Rosen and said,
hey, you're finging in it.
He is the word thingy, because although he recognized Michael,
he couldn't remember his name.
He also said, in it, which is short for isn't it,
to emphasize what he'd said.
So, what's the boy being in polite?
Or was he just happy meeting a famous person in the street?
And why do we teach kids to be polite in the first place?
That's what we'll be discussing in this program,
using some useful new vocabulary.
But first, I have a question for you, Neil.
The British are well known for being polite, as we've said,
and as even an idiom we use in certain situations to remind someone
to be especially polite.
But what is it?
Is it a, mind your A's and B's?
B, mind your piece and cues?
Or see, mind your X's and Y's?
Well, I know the answer to this,
but I'm going to say see, mind your X's and Y's,
because I think it's brilliant.
Okay, interesting.
Well, we'll find out the correct answer later in the program.
So let's return to the boy who said,
hey, you're finging in it to famous poet Michael Rosen.
Was that in polite or not?
Professor Louise Maloney, who studies the language of politeness,
has an answer.
She thinks that politeness is as much to do with the person being spoken to
as the person speaking, as she explained to BBC Radio 4 program, word of mouth.
I think the crucial thing there is in how you've perceived it.
So obviously he's not giving us the conventional,
a good afternoon, Mr. Rosen or a more formal approach.
It's very, very informal.
And he can't remember your name, and he's saying in it.
Now that has been interpreted by you as non-threatening to you,
you don't see him as insulting you,
and you're actually quite kindly disposed to that person.
So you haven't interpreted it as a fancy or aggressive.
You've said, I think you described it as being quite civil, actually.
Michael Rosen didn't feel that the boy was insulting him.
To insult someone means to be rude or offensive to them.
Although his speech was very informal,
Michael thought the boy was actually pleased to see him, not rude at all.
Michael was well disposed to the boy.
He liked and approved of him.
So you could say that politeness is subjective.
If Michael doesn't feel offended, then where is the offense?
Then why do we teach children to be polite at all?
Well, according to Professor Maloney, it's to do with the rules of society.
That's right.
Louise thinks that by teaching our kids politeness,
they enjoy the benefits of being accepted in society.
So imagine how embarrassed she felt when her two-year-old daughter repeatedly
ignored the cook at her nursery school and refused to say hello.
Here's Louise Maloney telling the story to BBC Radio 4's word of mouth.
The cook looks so disappointed.
And as I mentioned in the book, it felt me like there were lots of other children
skipping and skipping and jumping past going, hello.
Being really friendly children.
And my daughter was just there.
And we started to make excuses for her, like, oh, she's tired.
Oh, she's teething.
She's this and she's that.
Because the embarrassment was so strong and I felt awful walking back past the kitchen
on my way out.
I was almost trying to hide my face going on the one with the really rude child.
When her daughter didn't say hello to an adult, Louise made excuses for her.
If you make excuses for someone, you try to explain the reasons for their behavior.
For example, Louise said her daughter was tired.
She was growing new teeth.
She was this and that.
The idiom, this and that can be used to describe various unspecified things.
For example, if someone asks what you did this afternoon, you might reply,
oh, not much.
I stayed at home.
I watched TV.
I did this and that.
Politeness means different things to different people.
But we still like it when people are polite to us.
And I think the polite thing to do now is reveal the answer to my question, Neil.
So the idiom that we use to remind someone to be polite is not mind your exes and
why I'm sorry, Neil.
It's mind your peace and peace.
That's a shame.
Exes and why is it much better.
OK, now let's recap the vocabulary we've learnt, starting with thingy.
And informal words that's used if you can't remember someone's or something's name.
People also use the slang words, what's his name or what's a name for the same reason.
In it is a short form of the tag question, isn't it?
It's used to add emphasis to a statement.
The adjective insulting means rude or offensive.
If you are well disposed to someone, you like and approve of them.
When you make excuses for someone, you explain the reasons that are bad behaviour.
And finally, the idiom this and that describes various unspecified things.
Once again, I'll six minutes are up, but why not test yourself with the program
queers and worksheet available now on our website, BBCLearningEnglish.com.
Goodbye for now.
Bye.
6'8' English.
From BBCLearningEnglish.com.